# h1 Heading 8-)
## h2 Heading
### h3 Heading
#### h4 Heading
##### h5 Heading
###### h6 Heading

# Research Abstract
### Montanna Green
Innovative modeling and visualisation technologies are gradually entering the architecture, engineering, and the construction industry (AEC) in ways that aim to improve the interoperability of models and data exchange with the added ability to be immersed into the environment. Augmented Reality (AR) is currently being utilised as a visualisation tool in the AEC industry as it enables users to visualise digital models in the ‘real life’ environment through overlaying virtual models into the physical world. Additionally, cloud-based modelling, which enables consistent data transfer and improves collaboration and efficiency between disciplinaries and data platforms, is becoming a more viable option. By synthesising AR and cloud-based modelling, the collation of data can be represented in 3 dimensions on a standard user interface whilst synchronising to a complex Building Information Model (BIM). BIM is one of the most significant collaborative tools in the AEC industry. Critical to the effective use of BIM software and processes during the construction phase is its ability to update information dynamically and accurately. Often site information, such as service plans (e.g. piping, duct work, etc.), can be modified to suit individual situations, e.g. site conditions (Abe et al., 2017); however, this change is rarely communicated back to the collaborative model. Site verification is an important aspect of communication and collaboration for BIM workflows as it connects the physical ‘real life’ site to the virtual model and ensures problems that arise can be dealt with in a timely and efficient manner.

This research aims to provide a workflow that can mirror, as close as practicable, a real-time model of site conditions. There are multiple steps that need to occur before the virtual/digital model and live site conditions can be fully coordinated. Recently, there have been tools implemented into large companies that allow users to send data from the physical world to the digital world (Abe et al., 2017) e.g. 3D scanning with a laser rangefinder. Although these tools are useful, they often require specific software skills and are not cost effective for smaller companies (Sato et al., 2016). A promising alternative and opportunity to address these problems is the use of AR technologies and more specifically those that already exist in a consumer context such as the Apple AR kit. The Apple AR kit was chosen because it is already an accessible, user-friendly, and mainstream consumer-based technology that requires little to no cost outlay.

The AR kit together with a cloud-based modelling is proposed to be integrated into a new tool developed through this research to enable convenient and accurate data transfer for on-site/online verification. The AR kit would enable the model to be overlayed onto the site and therefore, discrepancies between the live site and digital model would become apparent. A standard interface allows operators to change the digital model to be coherent with the live site which is then transmitted to the cloud-based modelling workflow. By implementing this workflow, a more effective cross-disciplinary collaboration could be achieved, whilst achieving a higher data performance at a relatively low cost (Afsari, Eastman and Shelden, 2016). Flux, an online sharing platform for building and design, reads the data and sends it to the model, resulting in a continuous steam of data.

By intergrating an online data platform such as Flux, the AR app and the BIM would be able to more seamlessly communicate, aiding in more timely co-ordinaion and accurate 'real time' development of models and buildings. The developed tool would enable the AEC industry to be more efficient and collaborative which could result in this application becoming a standard site verification procedure.